In the last lecture we added our expansion panels and now we get some data here
and that's a typical use case right,
it is also what
we will have at the end of this course, you'll fetch data from some backend, from some server, a list
of posts, a list of users, whatever it is and you want to output this in your template,
therefore you don't know in advance how many elements you're going to need.
We only got one expansion panel,
now we would need three and we don't want to hardcode our content in there anyways. So we need some way
of dynamically looping through that code and creating as many panels as required
and we can do that with the help of so-called structural directive. Angular ships with directives which
as I mentioned before are instructions you place on element and there are some instructions that
only apply to a single element, ngModel was one of them
but there also are instructions which structurally change the rendered html code
and that's the case here.
We can use another special directive, ngFor
and you add with *ngFor, the casing and the star is important
and this is essentially a helper tool that allows you to repeat that element as often as required.
Now the as often as required part is defined here between quotation marks after an equal sign.
Here you write the looping logic like this,
you add let to create a variable, let post in our case, this name is totally up to you
of and then the data you want to loop through,
so here it's this post's name.
So this is not not up to you or it's up to you but you have to change it here
and in the component if you change it
and now we're looping through all the posts and we're storing the individual posts in this post variable
which is created here and now the cool thing is we can use that variable in the template here.
We can output post title here for example and down there, we can output posts content like that
and now it will create as many expansion panels as we need and give us access to the data we're looking
at.
And now if we save this, we get three expansion panels for the different posts and you see by default
only one of them can be opened, if you want to allow multiple ones,
you can add multi and set this true on the accordion,
now you would also be able to expand more than one post at a time.
So this is now our accordion with the posts and this is how we can render data, a list of data dynamically
with the help of ngFor. Now of course we don't want to use hardcoded data,
we want to use data which we actually receive from well the post create component in our case here.
And to do that, I'll get rid of my dummy data here,
I'll actually comment it out so that we still have it for reference but I'll set post to an empty array
now
and this is an empty array
and if it is empty,
well then we actually don't render anything.
Maybe we want to show a placeholder and we can use another structural directive for that.
So back in the html template, we could say we only want to render this accordion here with all these
posts
if we get posts.
So what I can do is I can check with another structural directive, with ngIf if a certain
condition is true and only if it is true, only then this part on which ngIf sets and all the child components
will be rendered
and that's important.
It's not hidden if it's not true,
it's not part of the dom,
it will only be added to the dom
if this condition is true and what is the condition? Anything you want, so you can refer to a function here
which returns true or false to a property that stores true or false or write a short code snippet, here
I'll check if posts length is greater than zero
and if it's not, then this will not be rendered. In that case I want to render something else,
I want to render a paragraph where I say no posts added yet, lowercase p
and I will add ngIf to that too
and here I will check if posts length is smaller or equal to zero,
then I will render this fallback text and
this is why we see no posts added yet here.
Now this clearly looks super ugly,
thankfully we can change this with some built-in css classes,
you can find more under guides and there using angular material typograpghy,
here are some classes you can add and there,
I will add body one as a class, here
mat, that's always appended, added at the beginning, mat-body-1
and now if we save that, we get a nicer look.
Now it has the roboto font for example and if we want to centre this for example, well then we can
also add another class because I don't want to style all paragraphs, I just want to style this paragraph,
so this will be my info text and I will target this now in my css file info text and simply set text
align here to center.
And now we're using some structural directives to present a nice user interface,
time to be able to finally add some posts and connect the post create component with the post-list.component